Added release notes for Media streaming agents (#24318)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/release-notes/streaming-browser-release-notes/streaming-browser-agent-dashjs-26-03-16.mdx

---
subject: Streaming Video & Ads for Browser
title: Media agent for Dash JS v4.1.0
releaseDate: '2026-02-18'
version: 4.1.0
metaDescription: Release notes for Media agent for Dash JS version 4.1.0
category: Dash JS
---

## What's new

This release introduces three new bitrate metrics providing comprehensive quality analysis for MPEG-DASH streaming, along with important improvements to existing bitrate calculations and dash.js v4/v5 compatibility.

## New features

### New bitrate metrics

- `contentManifestBitrate`: Maximum combined (video + audio) bitrate from the MPD manifest. Represents the highest possible stream variant available.

> - `contentMeasuredBitrate`: Network bandwidth estimated by the player's ABR (Adaptive Bitrate) algorithm, based on measured download throughput. Useful for analyzing ABR decision-making.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `contentMeasuredBitrate`: Network estimated by the player's Adaptive BitRate (ABR) algorithm, based on measured download throughput. Use this metric to analyze ABR decision-making.
```

> - `contentDownloadBitrate`: Effective download throughput calculated from video segment request data (bytesDownloaded × 8 / downloadTime). Provides real-time network performance monitoring.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `contentDownloadBitrate`: Effective download throughput calculated from video segment request data (`bytesDownloaded × 8 / downloadTime`). This Provides real-time network performance monitoring.
```

## Changes

### Updated bitrate calculations

> - `contentBitrate`: Now returns **video-only** bitrate from the active track (excludes audio). Previous versions included combined bitrate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `contentBitrate`: Returns the **video-only** bitrate from the active track and excludes audio. Previous versions included combined bitrate.
```

> - `contentRenditionBitrate`: Now returns combined **video + audio bandwidth** of the active rendition for complete quality picture.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `contentRenditionBitrate`: Returns the combined **video and audio bandwidth** of the active rendition to provide a complete quality picture.
```

## Compatibility improvements

> - `getDashBitrate()`: Fixed v4 compatibility issue. Version check now happens before calling v5-only APIs, preventing errors on dash.js v4.x installations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `getDashBitrate()`: Fixed v4 compatibility issue. Version check now occurs before calling v5-only APIs, preventing errors on dash.js v4.x installations.
```

> - `getManifestBitrate()`: Smart version detection: uses `getRepresentationsByType()` on dash.js v5+ and falls back to `getBitrateInfoListFor()` on v4.x.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `getManifestBitrate()`: Introduced a smart version detection that uses `getRepresentationsByType()` on dash.js v5+ and falls back to `getBitrateInfoListFor()` on v4.x.
```
